---
title: "Code: REPET"
excerpt_separator: "<!--more-->"
categories:
  - style-and-phrasing
tags:
  - phrasing
  - clarity
---

> **REPET:** void careless repetition — of words, phrases, sections, or concepts. 

The REPET code falls into the Style and Phrasing [phase](..\phases.md) of the editing process. 

## The story behind the code

This code might seem obvious, but it can manifest in different ways. It’s not just about repeating the same word several times in a sentence; it 
can be about saying the same thing differently, which is equally redundant. This can happen at the individual word level, by sentence, or by section 
or concept, when you could be wowing your reader with your next point instead!

However, not all repetition is bad; sometimes it has a purpose. It can be a powerful, persuasive rhetorical tool. That’s why you will often hear it 
used in political speech and speeches (“of the people, by the people, for the people”). But repetition is less impactful in writing than speaking, 
and it’s not often that we find a good reason to use repetition that way in our strategic product communication at OSP. 

## Using REPET

### As a writer

Most word-processing editors these days will flag repeated words, so as a writer, you can spot the obvious ones. A handy tip can be to read your 
writing out loud; this can help you identify repetition. When you notice repetition, it might be a good prompt for you to find a quote to support 
your argument instead, or perhaps use a metaphor to add color.

Liz, one of our Communication Consultants, says, “As a writer, I think about REPET usually at the phase where I'm self-editing. Sometimes you do 
need to repeat yourself like how you might be saying a similar thing in your introductory paragraph as your closing paragraph. But you should always 
be looking for variants and how you say it.”
### As a editor

Instances of repetition can sometimes be hard to spot as a writer, but they are often hiding in plain sight, and will often jump right out to an editor. 
A second set of eyes on a piece of writing will generally help catch and polish out unintentional or ineffective repetition.

### As a reader

Any way you slice it, whether it’s using the same words several times, or using different words to say the same thing, repetition is boring for a reader. 

Persuading a reader in 500 words instead of 750 can be a mark of a good writing, and it’s also more enjoyable for readers. Avoiding repetition is a way 
of respecting readers’ time and intelligence.

## Examples

| Before | After |
| ------ | ----- |
| “There are many features we’re planning for and mulling over, on the horizon.” | “There are many potential features on the horizon.”
| “Make your communication better. Make your writing better. Make your strategy better..” | “Make your communication clearer, writing stronger, and strategy more targeted.” |

## Find out more

* Listen to the [REPET episode](https://openstrategypartners.com/repet-the-osp-editorial-code-podcast-ep-04) of the OSP podcast: [Communicate, Connect, Grow](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCK1FgQnuVwknf_CWenjZSMw).
* Check out the full list of [editing codes](codes.md)
* Learn how to use this code when you're editing with the [Editing codes quick start quide](https://openstrategypartners.com/editing-codes-quick-start-guide)
