---
title: "Code: QUOTE"
excerpt_separator: "<!--more-->"
categories:
  - flow-and-sections
tags:
  - trust and evidence
  - trust
---

> **QUOTE:** Quote your subject-matter expert directly wherever possible. Quotes also help add interest.

The QUOTE code falls into the Flow and Sections phase of the editing process. 

## The story behind the code

This code is useful when you have written a piece where you’ve had to interview an SME. Rather than paraphrase what they’ve said, 
use their words directly to build the framework of your article. 

Even if you only include one quote in your writing, it will go a long way to establish trust with your reader. By adding a credible supporting voice to your claims, you
effectively reinforce the authenticity of what you’re saying. Quotes also help to break up a block of text, as well as adding color and interest. 

## Using QUOTE

### As a writer

If you’re a writer in the tech sphere, you already know you can’t possibly speak at an expert level on all the technical programs, languages, tools, and platforms that
come across your desk. But your SME can! A quote from an SME cements your piece with a high degree of technical accuracy that you, as the writer, may not be able to achieve 
otherwise.

We feel it’s okay to alter quotes within reason. Direct transcriptions of quotes from non-native English speakers can be grammatically incorrect. Or sometimes your interviewee
is simply nervous, and they speak more awkwardly than they’d like. Whatever the case,  As a writer, you may initially feel squeamish about changing someone’s words. We say, 
feel empowered to make grammar corrections or smooth any awkwardness, as long as you preserve their intent and meaning. Your help in this area can make your SME and 
their expertise shine.

If you’ve altered the quote, check back with the speaker. Most of the time, they are grateful for the help in clarifying their intent and polishing their words. It also 
makes sense to introduce the speaker of the quote with their full name and their role, if that’s important. And, of course, use quotation marks.

### As a editor

When looking at quotes as an editor, the focus is generally on grammar and punctuation. That means referring to the house style guide for decisions about smart 
(aka “curly”) quotation marks and whether punctuation lies inside or outside the quotation marks. 

As an editor, you’re constantly scanning for tight writing. That means a quote has to provide evidence or support a point the writer is making: decorative quotes are non-essential. This also ties in nicely with another of our favorite editing codes: [CRISP](https://flicstar.com/editing-guide/style-and-phrasing/crisp/).

### As a reader

When styled differently than the surrounding text, quotes can add readability and visual relief. You might call these ‘callouts,’ which you might style with `<blockquote>` tags in your HTML markup.

Quotes add credibility and imply that you, the author, have done your homework, even when they’re part of the body text and not called out in any particular way.

Sometimes case studies and blog posts can read a bit … dry. Quotes can inject a dose of juice, color, and humanity (as well as authority) into the written piece. As readers, adding a quote can help us feel that the writer is an actual human, making the work more authentic and trustworthy.  

## Examples

* [Name of SME], the CEO of Company [Y] states, “With product [X], you have the opportunity to grow your business without reinventing the wheel.”
* “Platform [Z] provides a centralized dashboard, so you can find the information you need in just one click.” says [Name of SME], the Senior Developer at Company [A].

## Find out more

* Listen to the [QUOTE episode](https://openstrategypartners.com/quote-the-osp-editorial-code-podcast-ep3) of the OSP podcast: [Communicate, Connect, Grow](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCK1FgQnuVwknf_CWenjZSMw).
* Check out the full list of [editing codes](codes.md)
* Learn how to use this code when you're editing with the [Editing codes quick start quide](https://openstrategypartners.com/editing-codes-quick-start-guide)
