---
title: "Code: CRISP"
excerpt_separator: "<!--more-->"
categories:
  - style-and-phrasing
tags:
  - tight writing
  - clarity
---

> **CRISP:** Write sentences that are spare and concise. Use occasional longer sentences to vary
> the rhythm of your writing. Aim for active voice, rhythm, and pace. Avoid flowery, 
> long-winded words and sentences. 

The CRISP code falls into the Style and Phrasing [phase](../phases.md) of the editing process. 

## The story behind the code

This deceptively simple code embodies many principles of effective communication and holds benefits for writers, editors, and readers. Consider:

* Rhythm and pacing help keep readers engaged.
* Clear and informative headlines help readers (and search engines) parse your piece
* Superfluous words add bloat. Your readers’ time is precious.
* Longer sentences require a higher cognitive load to process.

## Using CRISP

### As a writer

**Using CRISP as a writer takes practice.** You don’t need to censor your first thoughts early in the writing process—get it all out. When you come back later to review and edit, it’s time to get CRISPy! Here’s how:

* Remove words that don’t belong
* Articulate your point and get rid of everything else
* Use active voice 

Being CRISP in your opening is especially important — you don’t want to lose your readers before they’ve even started! CRISP is about writing concisely and making every word in your sentence count. But we don't want it to be dry, so your words should still have life and color.

### As a editor

It’s often easier for editors and reviewers to make things CRISPy than it is for authors to recognize in their own work. When you hand off something for editing (or when you sleep on it and review it yourself with fresh eyes), is when you are best able to spot opportunities to be CRISP.

As an editor, focus on:

* Point out sentences that get to the subject clearly, and those that do not.
* Find places where you can use one word instead of five. Words like “of,” “of which,” and “for” are often a sign of where you can tighten things up.
* Make headlines clear and tightly constructed.

### As a reader

Stumbling over awkward phrasing or lengthy, run-on sentences can distract you or even turn you off an article.

When writing is CRISP, just like an intuitive piece of user interface design, you don’t even notice it. CRISP writing is delightful to read, and you’re more open to receiving its message.  

Readers like CRISP sentences because they feel like you're not wasting their time, and you're not just trying to add to the word count. Everything you say to them, you really mean.


## Examples

| Before | After |
| ------ | ----- |
| “I would like to take this opportunity to extend my most hearty congratulations.” | “Congratulations.” or “Well done.” or “Great job, thank you.”
| “How to use the CRISP code as a writer.” | “Using CRISP as a writer.” |

## Find out more

* Listen to the [CRISP episode](https://openstrategypartners.com/crisp-the-osp-editorial-code-podcast-s1e2) of the OSP podcast: [Communicate, Connect, Grow](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCK1FgQnuVwknf_CWenjZSMw).
* Check out the full list of [editing codes](codes.md)
* Learn how to use this code when you're editing with the [Editing codes quick start quide](https://openstrategypartners.com/editing-codes-quick-start-guide)
